# bernard_huang_content_optimization

Video ID: jSewQFKsqOU

URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSewQFKsqOU

## Transcript

Thank you very much for the nice introduction, Barack. Always always a pleasure to to help out where I can. Love what you're doing in uh Istanbul, espec specifically with the the Turkish ecosystem. Um love loved every trip that I've made out there so far. So, what I have planned for today's call is to well walk everybody through how we see search engine optimization working in 2020. If you wanted to grab your own copy of the presentation, you can go to bit.ly/tohome-seo. That will then link you directly to the slides. Again, etoomeo on bit.ly. So, who am I? My name is Bernard. I'm one of the co-founders at a SEO software as a service known as Clear Scope. And before that, we started as a search engine optimization agency based in San Francisco known as Mushi Labs. Long story, very short. We did a lot of high growth SEO work for companies like Door Dash, Straa, Compass.com. And that's where we learned what was happening in SEO through just running lots of experiments on all of these different companies websites. So in my opinion, how search engine optimization works in 2020 can be broken out into five distinct parts. Number one, the the gray bar would be technical considerations. This would be your historic way of looking at SEO. Do you have the right title tags, metadescriptions, headers, those kinds of things? Are your pages loading quickly? What those allow you to do is to help Google access and understand your content. Then we have back links and subject matter authority. This is going to determine where Google initially sees or ranks your content in the search engine results. We'll talk about what I mean by that in just a bit. And then over time, Google is going to decide whether or not you should move up or down in the search results. We'd say that the factors that influence those would be what a search query deserves and the relevant user engagement signals surrounding those particular pieces of content that Google has placed. So this is a screenshot of the old Google webm tools. You can see how all of these factors are now broken apart. You have the gray bar on the left. This is Google accessing your content. Once it has access your content, it will understand what keywords or searches that it could possibly rank for. And then Google will initially seed your content in the search results, right? That depends on your backlink profile and your subject matter expertise. Over time, you then see Google either rank you up or down depending on how engaging your content is. So, step one, help Google Access, understand and crawl your content. This is technical SEO, right? You have page load speeds, crawl budgets, mobile friendliness, SSL, crawl errors, all of that stuff. Not going to get too much into technical SEO because you could just Google it and it's pretty much tried and true. The interesting take that I have on technical SEO is that technical SEO in my opinion could be thought of as negative factors. Right? If a page is not secure minus some amount of points. If it's a low page slow page load speed minus some more points where you get the positive factors from are relevant back links, engaging content, good clickthroughs, right? Then the combination of negative and positive gets added together into a total score. And you can see here, right? Then you get a rank order. So, if Google can't even find or crawl to your page, that's negative infinity, right? You will never rank if Google can't crawl or access the page. So, that's all I'm going to say about technical SEO. If you wanted to learn more about technical SEO, there's a lot of good resources already online. Just Google, you know, how to do technical SEO. You'll see here, right? Then, that's still just step one. You're helping Google understand and access the content that you've produced. Moving on, how does Google determine where your content initially ranks? So, backlinks have been a very big part of how search engine optimization works. You could think of a backlink as a vote that a website is casting to say that your content or your website is authoritative. What you see, what we've seen happen is that it's all about backlink relevance. So, Google is really interested in knowing what types of back links you're getting and whether or not they have authority or subject matter expertise in the particular category of keywords that you want to go after. So if WebMD wanted to talk about some health related keyword, they would have have more overall relevant authority than the New York Times, even though the New York Times might have more absolute authority just based on them being the New York Times. So, if you're going to build back links, what we've seen be very effective is to get links from pages that are performing well in the search engine results pages. What this entails is that if a page does perform well for the particular topic or keyword that you want to go after, getting a page from that even though the domain authority might be very low is actually exponentially better than getting a page from say the New York Times. even though the authority is really high, if the page doesn't perform well, that was published on the New York Times, we would say that that link is really not worth as much. So, Google is learning about whether or not pages are performing well. And if we subscribe to the fact that Google is using user engagement signal to inform whether or not something should perform well, we could infer that a page that does do well, anything that it internally or externally links out to must be a high quality page. So if you're going to build some backlinks, target the pages that you see doing well in the search engine results page. Perhaps the most interesting thing that we've seen emerge in Google's algorithm is this notion of a a knowledge graph or subject matter authority. Google's algorithm looks more at associations and topics like things like you see here, right? Google will know that if Tesla is being discussed that that's connected to or associated with Tesla Model 3. Google will also know that Model 3s are produced in Palo Alto in Fremont, which is connected to California. So what Google is doing then is that it's using its own natural language processing like this and saying okay well what are the core concepts or entities that belong to this particular topic and how does that content compare against my own knowledge graph of associations based on that and how your other content around the topic or subject matter is performing then you get an initial seating in the search engine results page. So you can see here because one of our our customers published a piece of content around wine health benefits and it performed really well taking like about 18 to 24 months. every subsequent piece of content that the customer published around a drink health benefit also started to do really well. So you can see here the combination of what relevant back links that you've built plus subject matter authority will improve Google's willingness to seed the content high up in the search results for the piece of content that you've published. Also using subject matter authority and associations, Google is able to understand what are the kinds of searches that your piece of content could actually cover and it's then more willing to seed it across the board for the range of longer tail searches that the user is going to perform given the different subtopics that you might want to go after. So again, relevant backlinks and subject matter authority will increase your overall seating and the range of potential searches that a user is performing. And that's also why a lot of people are doing topic clusters, right? The topic cluster is saying if we want to talk about say pimples, it would say okay well you know what is a pimple, symptoms of pimples, causes of pimples, treatments. It would talk about all of those different concepts and what you're essentially doing is proving to Google's algorithm that your content within a subject matter is engaging and satisfying the searcher, which makes winning another topic within the category much easier. Right? That's what we saw with the wine health benefits, uh, bone broth health benefits, that kind of thing. Also, right, content pruning has been kind of talked about in SEO. And that's because, right, if you have a lot of pages that don't pull in much organic traffic, then each page that you talk about for that particular topic should not be worth that many organic hits. So again right now we say okay technical SEO has helped Google access the content and now back links and subject matter authority has helped Google initially seed or rank your content in the search results. Before I go on to this next section just want to demonstrate what I mean in with a live example. So, we run a variety of our own web properties like as you can see here. And what we found is that when you talk about a subject matter more comprehensively, say using a lot of the entities or concepts that Google could care about, what you're doing is a improving right your content's ability to see it in the search results and b expanding the range of searches. So as an example, I have a piece of content that I published here talking about pillow sizes. If we were to take this piece of content and run this through Google's own natural language processing, again, this is how Google infers uh knowledge graph associations. Then you'll see here Google will come back and say okay given this piece of content I think it's talking about concepts like um let's see here so you can see here right Google says okay the entities that has come back are all of these different concepts that you see in the different colors or categorized down here. So we would have found that something like pillowcase shows up as a relevant entity discussed within other top ranking pieces talking about pillow sizes and you can see here so we mention it within our piece of content once. The same thing could be said for Euro also mentioned by a lot of the other top ranking pieces of content. So we mention it within our piece of content. Now when we look at the performance right of this piece of content, you'll see here what this piece of content is now capable of doing is even though it's not really doing that well for the head term pillow sizes, we're able to pull in about 20 times total number of head term impressions and way more clicks than just the head term itself. If we were to then look at the range of queries that this piece of content is able to capture, you'll see here right concepts like pillowcase will be serviced through this piece of content. So simply then by talking about all of the different associations that the topic could discuss, you can see here you're able to then capture a much wider range of searches that the user could have surrounding the different subtopics that you're talking about. When Google sees that your piece of content is doing a good job answering all of these different side questions or longtail questions, it improves Google's trust that your piece of content would do a good job then answering the needs of the searcher. So that's kind of how Google then is taking into consideration, right, content quality. It's really looking at the associations and saying okay if you want to talk about you know things to do in Istanbul you got to mention Haga Sophia you got to mention Blue Mosque because those are very closely related to the things that you would want to do in Istanbul and when a piece of content does not talk about those then Google can be fairly confident that the piece of content must not be very high quality. Okay, moving on. Right. How does then Google decide whether or not you want to rank up or down in the search results after, right, they've initially seated you? Right there. You can see here a customer of ours is able to have a low domain ranking according to HRES, right? Which scores domains based on how many backlinks it has. It's able to outperform for that wine health benefits term. these domains that have very high domain rankings. So, how do you then achieve something like this? Well, first, this demonstrates that back links are no longer as important in today's day and age of SEO. What Google wants to know is whether or not the content that you're producing is actually meeting the needs of the searcher. So, you'll see here, what does a search query actually deserve? In SEO, the most common answer, right, when somebody should ask you like how how should I do SEO for this particular keyword, then the most common answer that SEO experts will give is it depends. And that is exactly the truth of the matter, right? But what does it depend on? And that's where I've broken it out to a very simple model, right? Search queries deserve different things depending on the search itself. So someone searches for something and they get back a content type whether it's an article or a video or a product listing and that content type then has different associations that the user would care about. Let's talk about this more practically then. Right? If you did a search for corona virus, it would say that this would be an example of search query deserves recency, media or medical authority and credibility in the sense that if etoome.com wrote about corona virus, it would never rank because it's not a media authority. Nor does Google probably think that it's a credible source for this style of news. So if you did not have any one of these core associations, well you would never rank for corona virus. You can see here if you looked at how to surf, you would get a video in the above the fold followed by a video block. So we would say, okay, well, how to surf would be an example of a search query that deserves multidia in the sense that video pictures are able to better teach somebody how to surf than a big article or block of text. So if you wanted to tackle a local search, right, plumbers in Istanbul, then we would say that would be locality, reviews, and content quality to a certain degree. So you can see here depending on the different keywords that you want to go after there's going to be different weights on the different associations that users would care about surrounding that particular search. So wine health benefits back to this example we'd say that what Google is looking more at is well expertise authority and trustworthiness and content quality and then a little bit of medical authority but that's why you're able to see then wide openen eats do well is because it's really done well on the content quality and expertise authority and trustworthiness component. So this is just a like a walk through, right? Plumbers in Sydney. You can see here a search engine results page. We get this result that shows up. Number two, you'll see here, right? What does your search query deserve? We talked about plumbers in Sydney and we said, okay, well, that deserves locality and reviews and perhaps like, you know, time of operation. So you can see here in the above the fold experience for that result that we saw high ranking what are they doing? They're serving those associations very quickly to the user in the above the fold experience. So as a hypothetical example if my toilet exploded and it was 4 in the morning what would I do? I would Google plumber in Sydney. I click on this and land on the page. You'll see here it says 247. So I know I could call them. It says 0299. I know it's a local company. And you can see here there's a b bunch of trust elements. You can trust me. You can trust me. You can even see the photos of the people. You can trust me. So by serving then these content experiences high up above fold then you're meeting the needs of the searcher quicker. Right? and what we want to be doing in SEO. You can see here for vacuum cleaners, right? The way that this page is laid out is that it's saying, "Okay, well, what are the different categorizations of vacuums that you would want? You know, here are what we believe to be the top ones from the top brands." And we give you a nice way to filter all of the different products that we have based on what you're likely to care about. So, that's then what we're saying here. search query deserves X then right this helps to explain a bunch of SEO myths you'll hear people say yeah you should refresh content as frequently as possible because we get SEO boosts when we do that well that's because right topics change over time but some topics change way faster like Corona virus you want to know what's happening within the last 24 hours so if you updated your content content every 24 hours or quicker, then you would continue to do well, right? Expertise, authority, and trustworthiness is a concept that has come up in SEO recently. And why that matters is because Google has been saying, okay, for certain searches like wine health benefits or diet pills, that's going to affect somebody's life. And so Google's going to look for more credibility for that particular class of search. Right? That's where you're saying video embeds deserves multimedia, local citations for locality, widgets, a tool, user generated content. It's because people want to see trust backlinks, right? That's because the keyword itself deserves a strong domain authority. So to conclude this section, serve and optimize for the most relevant associations that match what the search query actually deserves. Right? SEO is not a onesizefitsall equation, but a lot of people make it into it. They say, "Oh, you build some backlinks, you, you know, put the keyword in the header and you're good." But you're not, right? It's a whole bag of different concepts that somebody would care about. And what we want to be doing is understanding what are the most relevant associations that the enduser wants to see and present that as quickly as possible. Why do we want to do all of that? Because at the end of the day, what Google is really looking for is search results that conclude the search journey. Let's briefly talk about what I mean by concluding a search journey. Concluding a search journey would be if I search for things to do in IstAnul like this. Then concluding a search journey would be if I click on this result and then scrolled around and then closed out, right? Google would say, "Oh, okay. Well, when I presented the user with that experience, then they found what they were looking for. So that was good. and Google knows that this is a legitimate user because I'm logged in and I've shown Google that I am a legitimate user. Right? For example though, what if I didn't conclude the search journey? What if I went back to Google and clicked on another result like that and then I scrolled around here and then I closed out? Well, right, then you could imagine that if I'm finding more of what I'm looking for here on this result, then this result eventually will outperform that result based on its ability to conclude the search journey. So, you have leading signals, right? Relevant backlinks, subject matter authority, click-through rates, average time on page, bounce rates. But at the end of the day, what Google wants to know is whether or not your piece of content has met the needs of the searcher. That means no additional search on Google, no additional click on another search result. So you can see back to that example of the Google web master tools. We were seated about position 25 given three impressions, no clicks. You see here, Google keeps trying us over time, but because we did not receive any engagement from a click-through rate perspective, Google even eventually dropped our position off of the search engine results page. So, that's the leading signals, the lagging signals, and what Google is really caring about is concluding the search journey. So, here is where I can just show you uh via my computer instead of just looking at this. All right. So, let's do an incognito search for how to get rid of pimples like this. You'll see here, right? We get a list of search engine results back. It'll say how to get rid of pimples fast, fast, home remedies. This looks like a everything kind of page. Causes, symptoms, home treatment. You'll see here fast, stat, overnight, and fast and quick. We're to just do fast. You'll notice that there's a lot of occurrences that we do see showing up for fast. So you'll see here if I did a subsequent second search for how to get rid of pimples fast like this over here on the right, you'll see that what Google has decided to do is that it's pulling out the winners of this particular intent fast and having it rank over here. So you see the same result there and then you can see this glamour is the same result there and then you can see here this medical news today is the same result here. So pretty much exactly the same results that you're seeing across the two different search engine results pages. Why is this happened? The reason why this has happened can be best demonstrated through what we see happening here. So you'll see here someone first did how to get rid of pimples and rank brain Google's algorithm update that it released maybe seven years ago did something like this right it say okay initially someone did a search for how to get rid of pimples and the user got back a set of search results that were all how to get rid of pimples the user likely clicked on a couple of these results and said that's not what I want so they went back to Google and performed a second search, how to get rid of pimples fast. The user then likely got back a set of search results all specifically targeting that keyword. And guess what? They likely clicked on a couple of these results and said, "Aha, that is what I want." So thus concluding their search journey. That's the important part, right? So, what Google says is, okay, if they're finding what they're looking for after they perform the search and then a subsequent second search and then clicking on this result, what would happen if I just merge that in to the search engine results page like this? The next time somebody did a search for how to get rid of pimples, they saw this as a search engine results page. They likely clicked on that and say, "Yeah, that is what I want." thus concluding their search journey without having to perform a second click. You can see over time then what has happened is that you have a search engine results page that has gravitated towards intent with the highest likelihood of concluding a search journey. You can also see here that if I look at the Google autocomplete suggestions by adding a space, you'll see here it says fast marks naturally overnight. Fast overnight naturally, right? These are very close to exactly what you're seeing ranking for the head term right over here, right? Fast home remedies, natural ways, home remedies. So you can use Google autocomplete suggestions to inform intent. Why? Because Google autocomplete suggestions are strong indications of subsequent second searches that a user is likely to perform given the topic known as how to get rid of pimples. What you'll then see what Google is doing right with home remedies is that Google is pulling out then the winners of those particular intents that the user is actually finding. So you can already see through this example that we could imagine how there's like five results that come from how to get rid of pimples fast. There's like one result that's coming from how to how how to get rid of pimples pimples with home remedies like that. And how you then win how to get rid of pimples is not by creating a generic title tag on how to get rid of pimples because that is not what the user wants, right? The user is finding what they're looking for when they Google how to get rid of pimples fast or with home remedies. And what you Google is doing is pulling out these top results over here and having them rank over here. So what you need to do is design the content around the intent with the highest likelihood of concluding the search journey. So that's then uh what this whole section is about, right? Someone does a search. How to get rid of pimples. It's worth 40,500 monthly searches, but they don't find what they're looking for. They then perform a second search. How to get rid of pimples fast. 22,200 searches. They find what they're looking for. Here you can then see how to get rid of pimples is basically just the winners of how to get rid of pimples fast because that's where the user is finding what they're looking for. You can see here another example of this happening is bone broth bone broth recipe slow cooker bone broth. Same result ranks across the board for something that's worth 90,500 searches. this is only worth 590 monthly searches, right? So, bone broth, you can see here the way that you need to then look at this is say, okay, right, how to make or how to make and reasons why you should benefits or top benefits, right? So, if I did this bone broth benefits, you'll see here, right? This and that are the same. Even though this says bone broth and this says bone broth benefits, this is what the user is actually finding. You'll see here health blind. This one's the same as what you see here. And then you'll see here this kettle and fire is what you see there. So again, three results for from bone broth come from bone broth benefits. You'll see here this one says how to make and so does that. So what if we looked at how to make bone broth like this? You'll see here right this whole and this kitchen these two then come from how to make. So again right by dissecting then where the users are actually finding what they need. You can see here Google doesn't care about keywords anymore or monthly search volume. It just wants to know whether or not the result is delivering what the user wants. So, search intent is way more important than keywords because Google Google is understanding searcher journeys a lot better. Search intent with little to no monthly search volume can and will rank for head topics if you understand what the correct ones are, right? Single target content is better than topic clusters. Topic clusters are normally the like, you know, X 101. What is X? Everything you need to know about X. If you're searching for how to get rid of pimples and clicked on ultimate guide to getting rid of pimples and most topic clusters will start with what is a pimple, right? What would you do? You probably bounce. You want to know how to get rid of pimples as quickly as possible. So identify and create content around search intent that users actually care about for the topics that you're targeting. That then is how SEO works in 2020, right? To recap, technical SEO negative factors. If you got your technical SEO to amazingness, right, to just completely good, you're starting at zero, right? What Google wants is to serve content that meets the needs of the searcher. So that's that gets you to zero presumably. And then you have subject matter authority and backlinks. Backlinks is how relevant they are. Subject matter authority is how your content that you've already produced around the subject matter is is doing. That gets you initially ranked. Over time, you then move up or down in the search results based on your content's ability to serve the needs of the searcher. This is just part of the additional resources. I'm sure Barack will distribute um some this PDF or presentation after the call. But here is where I would like to open it up for questions, thoughts, comments, anything really. Bar, thank you very much for this valuable uh course. I I mean it was very useful especially I mean basics of the if you know basics of the search engine optimization and uh learn how it progressed it is impressive of course uh so uh there will be questions but I have some um uh we we receive lots of uh emails to uh for example from the content providers at startup Turkey especially or startup stumble they wanted to write um guest posts and probably uh with the guest posts they wanted to backlink is it right? Yeah. So that's a a very common tactic if you will for backlink building which is known as say guest posting or doing interviews right you could imagine that I create a blog and I I want to interview you Barack and I I say okay well can you can you spare some time I'd love to interview you get your thoughts and then I create this this roundup of 50 different experts that I've interviewed and The po the purpose of a lot of those is so that you as Barack will then link out to that interview or subsequently if I approach you and say I want to do a guest blog post will you will you accept it and can I link back to my website and the short of the answer is well it's up to you right if you want to be accepting guest posts then you know you you can do whatever you want to do and it will work to a certain degree. And if you want to go and pitch people guest posts, sometimes they'll come back and say no. Sometimes they'll go back and say it'll cost you this amount of money. And sometimes they'll just say, "Yeah, but you have to provide the piece of content." And so it's really just a a quantity game of um you know how many people can you pitch to do a guest post and how many of them will actually like say okay you can write a post on my blog and link back to your website and uh which tools are you using for search engine optimization uh by yourself I mean for your company and which uh tools do you recommend for the startups to use uh for the basic, intermediate, and advanced. Yeah. All right. That's a good question. Uh let me see here. I would do something along the lines of this. So, uh in terms of like, you know, call them like Swiss Army knife knife SEO tools, things that do everything, you have Semrush, you have Hrefs. These are probably your two best SEO Swiss Army knife as like tools. They'll do everything. If you wanted to crawl and diagnose technical errors on your site, we would probably say so for crawling uh Screaming Frog SEO Spider. Um that one's pretty cheap and free. It's like a premium model. or if you have a large larger site like something like deep crawl is also fairly affordable these days. If you wanted to do rank tracking and whatnot performance, we would probably just lump that into SEM Rush and Hrefs. Obviously, if you want to do some content optimization, our own tool uh clear scope is what uh we would recommend that you use for kind of figuring out content quality. And then I would also uh a little bit clarify what clear scope does by the way. Of course. Of course. So we can go through here to get an understanding. So how uh things to do in Istanbul? Istanbul. All right. So you run reports in clear scope. What clear scope does is that it goes to whichever Google that you selected in in this dropdown right here and then in whichever language that we support and then we say okay well what are the top 30 ranking pieces of content that are performing for things to do in Istanbul. We then dive into each piece of content doing our best to throw out noise elements like navbars, sidebars, footers, that kind of stuff. So doing something like this, pulling off the body of content like this right here. And then we run this content through the two industry leaders in natural language processing. So you'd have then Google cloud natural language top ranking content goes through and then you'd have IBM Watson something like this. So clear scope uses then Watson to pull out the top ranking uh entities surrounding the pieces of content you can see here right so IBM Watson will say given that content that you just fed me I think that it's talking about things like blue mosque Sophia toxim square top capi palace or you'll see here Google cloud will come back and say okay given the same piece of content I think it's talking about blue mosque and Istanbul archaeological something and this other mosque. So, we take these recommendations, do the same thing, whoops, across the top 30 results right here. And then we put it all into a nice text editor experience which will allow you to check for that subject matter authority. So you'll see here if I talk about the things to do in Istanbul Istanbul Turkey then you'll see here clear scope will be going through and saying okay great you've talked about Istanbul and Turkey but if you were to cover the subject matter comprehensively you would say number one you should visit the blue mosque or number two you should visit the Hagia Sophia and three and you can see here right as I'm drafting clear scopes going through and checking to see how comprehensively I've addressed the subject matter. We also say yes, you should talk about Turkish delight. And the reason is is because all of these other top ranking pieces have all mentioned Turkish delight. So we then say, okay, this is what you need to talk about to comprehensively talk about the subject matter. And then you can see here, right, I still have this piece of content from US News. We can take this, copy it, and then stick in existing content like that, and clear scope will quickly go through and say, okay, yeah, it's still it's okay, right? You can sort by unused. And we can see that this piece of content doesn't talk about Turkish delight. If it did, then it wouldn't be unused. So you can very quickly sort by all of the different ideas or concepts that you can consider adding to then make your piece of content from a semantic like entity perspective uh way way better. So that's how clear scope works. That's great. Go ahead please. The the the services that you are using by the way. Oh yeah. And right the last one I was going to say is advanced search operator. So these this is just things that you do on Google. If you Googled advanced search operators then right these are Google commands that you can do right like site colon or you know you can see here uh okay this this is like if I did site site clearcope.io io then we'll get back everything that's on clear scope that is like on Google's index and so we could say like site tripadvisor.com and say okay there's 108 million tripadvisor things and then I can say you know is stumble and then Google will say okay there's still like 1.4 4 million things that mention is stumble and then I can do okay like you know in URL which would then say like this like it would be like attractions-gumble so I can then say like in URL-istan and then I can also do like in title uh forum right and then I can do like that and you can see here I've already basically now just stripped out everything that has -ash Istanbul forum in the title and like mentions Istanbul and I already then like could dissect a very sliver of a piece of a website very quickly. So you have like site colon in URL colon in title colon and then you can also just like minus it off like I could say okay well in URL is dash is stumble but we can say not in the title mention forum right and now we've taken everything out that mentions forum in the title so everything that talks about stumble but is not a forum and so there's a lot of really cool things that you can do just with advanced search operators and how about the videos and uh also other kind of content in the search engine optimization. if you have a unique uh video. Um because while searching um nowadays social media results are also listed on the top of the Google results especially uh if you have a YouTube channel and if it is related then I think some of um the related results are also shown. Yep. So this is a question about video like say social media SEO. Again, this goes back to that question of search query deserves X. So, it really depends on the searcher like intent. And what we found is that for specifically, I'm just going to talk about video. How to Y why Y is pretty much always best service through a video, right? If I do how to surf as the example I brought up, video I do how to change a spark plug, a spark plug, right? See here video, right? So if you're finding a lot of videos that show up like this in the video block in the above the fold experience, then we would say okay, that's a search query that deserves a video. And then uh you know how to y we also find like y reviews as something where videos would show up. It's I don't have any good ideas for you, but we would say either take another piece of content that is performing well for the video on YouTube and embed it inside um your your piece of content, right? So come here and then say um you can like take the the embed right right here like that and just put that inside your article. That's probably the easiest way. or else filming or creating your own video is probably necessary to do well. In terms of social media, social media is specific to just people, right? If I search for Elon Musk, then Google's going to say, "Oh, yeah, you probably want Elon Musk and here's what his Twitter has to say." So, you don't really have to worry that much about social like ranking social media. It's just something that gets associated with with your company or website for like at some point when you tweet a lot or something like that. Is Google trying the left uh menu? By the way, I I have recently seen the left menu in for example uh some queries such as corona in different uh countries. Yeah. Corona in India for example. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Google definitely trying this. Um for sure. Yeah. Uh and also uh there are questions. Let me ask you uh the audience questions. I have mine many but uh let's ask how good are SPAS today? First paint is usually slower but further content is serving is faster. To which extent Google understand spas? What? I actually don't know what a what an SPA is. All right. Uh Pav, should you please uh define SPA? Clarify more SPA. What is uh your advice on how to be considered by Google as a subject authority and creating effective backlinks? Uh yeah. So that it just takes time, right? Just create high quality content. Um and over time you should see yourself bubble up to the top. I mean using these tools like say SEM Rush, Hrefs, defining which keywords you want to go after, where your competitors are getting back links and then just going out and creating the best piece of content that you can and building the links is is at the surface like what we talked about. This specific um talk wasn't designed to give you tactical um advice. is more designed to like help you understand what are the different moving parts. Um, so yeah, I think tactically speaking, it's all it's all pretty dry as in you can see here like we get a lot of requests for like some of our websites and people will just reach out and like it's just a volume game, right? they'll say, "Oh, um, right here, hey, you know, okay, that's advertising." But we get we get a lot of uh like things that are just saying, "Hey, can I like, you know, give you a a backlink or can I can I do a like a guest post on on your site or whatever." And that's pretty much what all like websites will continue to get in terms of backlinks is just all these outreach. And then that's just a a quantity game. And then from a content quality perspective, just kind of meet make sure that what the user actually wants, you're like serving it as quickly as possible. Uh P has answered SPAS are single page applications. Oh, okay. Yeah, Google doesn't really like single page single page applications. Um, I can't really think of one off the top of my head. I think this one might be a single page application. Uh, yeah. Yeah. Right. So, um, SPA single page applications. H, like you've kind of put yourself into a tough spot from a like a Google perspective. You want to make sure that like when you have all of these elements that you don't use spans or like you know divs or whatever like you still have them be wrapped in like a like anchors. So you still need everything to be anchors if Google wants if you want Google to click on them. That's perhaps the most important piece to a single page application. From there you also want to make sure your sitemap.xml XML exists in your search console so that you're giving Google all of the different URLs that it could exist because oftent times you're going to be like dropping uh you're going to be dropping site like uh just pages from from the search just based on how single page applications work. And I think these these two are probably the um biggest problems that we see from spas from a JavaScript perspective. Another question clear 350 a month that is something as a V start uh we as a startup can either group buy or rather engage with grey hat co agency what are your comments do you have discounts on clear scope for the uh startups so we do we we have a startup plan it it goes just as as low as 200 per month for 25 reports and one user. Um, in terms of like the other part of the question, right, like SEO agencies, I'd say any SEO agency that guarantees guarantees or promises results is oftent times actually like a a red flag or a yellow flag, right? If they're going to say, "Hey Barack, right, we're going to get you double your traffic in three months." So that's probably you probably don't want to go with them, right? the best SEO to like don't go with these best like agencies are going to say stuff like it depends or things along the lines of um you know like not sure how long and um they're going to work really hard on your content quality and then do kind of like volumebased outreach to achieve links. The black hat SEOs are going to guarantee results. They're going to be very intransparent about how they're going to do it. And what they're typically going to be doing is then purchasing purchasing like low quality lowquality or spammy links. Spammy links whether that's through like comment spam or private blog networks. Private blog networks. That's PBN's. That's how a lot of people will sell links, right? They'll operate 500 different websites and then they'll just buy links from these websites that look like they're independently operated but really not. So another question is is there a good uh WordPress plug-in you suggest for the uh WordPress blog site? Okay. Yeah. Uh for a WordPress plugin, we usually recommend RankMath as the free like better than Yoast thing. It comes with basically X like sitemap generators like schema related things. So definitely check out RankMath if you want a nice WordPress plugin. And uh for the site maps uh that you mentioned uh should uh the startups uh also monitor their web master good Google web master how should they do that? Yeah. Um you'll see here to monitor your Google web master you want to go to like index coverage and you can see here right this these errors are what you want to avoid that's basically it right so uh within your Google search console to monitor it effectively you just go to like index coverage so index coverage and then look look for any any errors I mean setting it up in the first place is just going to be very important and then Google will literally email you like when you have problems. So you'll see here in my email if I look for search console they'll email me like performance stuff but they'll say oh look new mobility issues related to clear scope like too small to read clickable elements are too close together right and so just signing up and verifying your domains you Google you're going to get the Google to just email you when errors happen. Mhm. How do you make your inbox zero? Um, by just ruthlessly prioritizing everything. But you can see here, this is just one of like two inboxes. I think this one here I this my clear scope one. I'm pretty close. Yeah, I'm pretty close. But there's just you just got to close everything out by the end of the day or else um things are things are going to be build up and that's not going to be good. Uh just a second let me check for the questions. Um do you uh do you think link exchange is actually that bad uh than what it is portrayed? Yeah, I don't think it's bad. Right. I just think that it's a lot of people will just kind of spend a lot of time doing it but not get any results. And the reason is because say you exchange a link with like two startups exchange links. Well, if both startups were just very low authority to begin with, then the value of those links being exchanged is not that worthwhile. But if you were to go to say startup Turkey and try to do a link exchange there then you know Barack might say oh well right like just as an example h like you know you're not quite at my level so why should I do a link exchange with you? So, that's kind of the the biggest problem with link exchanges is that like it's usually either two very invaluable links are being exchanged or else there's too great of a power difference between the links being exchanged and basically one party will just say that's not enough value for me so I'm not I'm not going to do it. And another question uh as we are coming to uh 1 hour is brands social network with many subscribers being a significant factor for websites site authority with Google? No. So Google doesn't care about say a Facebook page that has lots of followers or whatever or a Twitter account that has lots of followers because that's not in Google's control, right? It would be too easy to game if we if Google used Facebook followers or Twitter followers as a signal because I could just buy a bunch of followers onto my Twitter account and then improve my Google rankings and Google wouldn't be able to reliably depend upon Twitter or Facebook's reporting of what a legitimate user appears to be. Obviously, that's to say if you do have a big following and as a result a lot of people are googling, you know, like startup Turkey because people are um people keep tweeting about it, then yeah, that's going to indirectly help your SEO. But as a direct ranking factor, it has no impact. For a learning and improving English company, where is the first place to start improving SEO ranks? Um there you can see here what that's that's ranking right there. Um I would say that for Udemy Udemy has very good uh SEO courses, right? Turkish company. Um I would say I haven't really looked at a bunch of them, but they do seem to like pop up quite a bit. They're also, you know, not terribly expensive. So I think these are all fairly good like things to just get up and running very cheap to like get an understanding of how SEO works. Bard thank you very much these valuable an hour with new kind of especially Google in 2020. Uh I have many questions left but I will ask you on email. So thank you very much for your valuable time and this uh presentation. Uh hope to welcome you in stumble after corona virus. Stay safe and healthy in uh you too. Take care. Thank you. Thanks for having